There are different ways to setup the MCA parameters in ORCM. Following are methods to setup MCA parameter and its order of precedence:

* Setting up using the command line parameters

Each ORCM application command line supports the following command line options:
* `–mca <param_name> <value>` option and 
* `–gmca <param_name> <value>`

The command line options overrides the default options in ORCM takes precedence over other methods of setting up MCA parameters.

* Setting up using environment variables

Using ORCM MCA environment variables MCA parameter can be setup for all ORCM tools in this node. The environment setup can be overridden using the command line parameter.
```
export set OPENMPI_<mca_param_name>=<value> 
```

* Setting up in orcm-sites.xml file

Under each node type setup MCA parameters using the MCA xml tag. These are default settings and takes precedence over other methods of setting up MCA parameters. This is applicable for all tools and daemons using this orcm-sites.xml for startup.
```
<mca-params>
<value>sensor_base_sample_rate=5,sensor_base_log_samples=1,db_print_file=+</value>
</mca-params>
```

* Setting up using openmpi-mca-params.conf

Use an Openmpi-mca-params.conf file to setup the global default MCA parameters. This method is overridden using the above methods in the order or precedence.

* Programming defaults

Some MCA parameter are required and they have programming defaults hardcoded in the code. This default values can be overridden using the above methods.
To get a list of all possible MCA parameters, run the following command: (orcm-info --help for details) 
```
shell$ orcm-info  --param  all  all
```

To set the parameter in any orcm program (including orcmd and opal_db) use the following syntax:
```
shell$ orcmprog --gmca  parameter1-name  parameter1-value  [--[gmca parameter2_name parameter2_value] ...
```

For example:
```
shell$ opal_db --gmca db_base_verbose 6 --gmca db_hash_store_priority 2 --gmca db_hash_fetch_priority 2 --gmca db_postgres_store_priority 5 --gmca db_postgres_fetch_priority 5
```
