# Introduction
## Purpose of this document
This document hopes to instruct the reader on how to create and maintain an ORCM CFGI file.
This file is used to tell the ORCM software the configuration of the cluster.
This document is intended for ORCM developers and system administrators in charge 
of installing ORCM and/or maintaining an ORCM installation.

This document assumes the reader is familiar with ORCM and its architecture 
and with the system they are trying to configure.  This document is not a user guide or manual for ORCM.

## Reference documents
The reader may find these reference documents helpful in understanding this user guide.
* Open MPI code internals        http://www.open-mpi.org/video/?category=internals
* ORCM Developer Information     https://svn.open-mpi.org/trac/orcm
* Backus-Naur Notation           http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_Backus%E2%80%93Naur_Form
* ORCM Regex                     https://github.com/open-mpi/orcm/wiki/3.3-ORCM-Regex 



# ORCM CFGI file syntax
The CFGI file in a plain text ASCII file.  The grammar in the file is defined by the Backus-Naur desciption shown hereafter.  Details for each entry will be given afterwards.

* **configuration** ::= **version** **creation** **role** **junction** [**scheduler**]
* **naming** ::= **name**
* **junction** ::= **type** **naming** [**controller**] **junction**
* **controller** ::= **host** [**port**] [**cores**] [**log**] [**envar**] [**aggregator**]**mca-params***
* **scheduler** ::= **shost** **port** [**mca-params**] [**aggregator**]**queues***

In order to simplify the grammar specification, the basic data types are as follows:

* **string** ::= a sequence of ASCII characters with value in [33, 126]
* **regex** ::= a **string** where the characters, [ ] :, have special meaning.  
       See the above link on ORCM Regex for details
* **uint** ::= a **string** of an unsigned 4-bytes integer as defined in the C language
* **ushort** ::= a **string** of an unsigned 2-bytes integer as defined in the C language
* **float** ::= a **string** of a floating point number
* **csList** ::= a **string** containing different fields separated by commas
A **string** does not need to be delimited with double quotes if it does not contain whitespace characters.  Otherwise, it needs to be delimited with double quotes, if the white spaces are to be preserved.
-->At this time, single quotes cannot be used to delimit **string**.

Obviously, depending on the languages, e.g. XML, JSON or YAML, used to embed the above syntax, the above tokens will have to match the requirements of the specific language.  For example, specifying only **configuration** will end up in XML be represented by the pair < configuration > … < /configuration > where the ellipsis here will hold the rest of the configuration.

## Details of the CFGI grammar
Each command line with be repeated here, and followed by details.  Items with a full description, like <junction>, will be addressed when their full description are presented.

**configuration** ::= **version** **creation** **role** **junction** [**scheduler**]

* **version** ::= A **float** indicating the version and subversion numbers. The format is as follows "X.Y" where X and Y are any integer; Y is the sub-version.
* **creation** ::= A <string> to identify time, date and who build this configuration files. At this time, the format is left to the user’s discretion.
* **role** ::= RECORD  .  Only one key word at this time: RECORD.  It is not case sensitive.  The key word RECORD refers to the creation of a configuration record.  There can be only one configuration with the modifier RECORD.

**naming** ::= **name**
* **name** ::= A **regex** expanding to one or more names.  A special character, ‘@’, is reserved to indicate that the name of the parent junction in the hierarchy will be used to replace the ‘@’ character.  For example, if the parent junction is named “rack1” and its child junction as for <name>=”@_node”, then the child junction’s name string is “rack1_node”, where “rack1” of the parent replaced the ‘@’ character. 
       
**junction** ::= **type** **naming** [**controller**] **junction**
* **type** ::= ("cluster"|"row"|"rack"|"node")  .  "cluster" is always the root of the hierarchy.  There can only be one junction of type cluster.  It must always be mentioned.
_"row" & "rack" are used in a 4-tiers hierarchy: cluster, row, rack, node.  At the time of this writing, all hierarchy must be have 4-tiers, and exactly the following: cluster, row, rack, node, in that order._ 
"node" are always leaf points in the hierarchy.  With “cluster” as root and “node” as leaf, the hierarchy always has a unique start point and well defined ending points.  Each junction must have a name.  Furthermore the name of siblings must be different.  For example, if a cluster contains two rows, these rows must not have the same name.

**controller** ::= **host** **port** [**cores**] [**log**] [**envar**] **mca-params***

* **host** ::= A **regex** of an actual IP address or an IP resolvable name, of the machine hosting the controller.  It can include the hierarchical operator ‘@’ as explained in <name>.  If it does, this ‘@’ operator will refer to the immediate junction hosting this controller. There is a strong relationship between the hosting junction name and its controller host value.
If the hosting junction’s name is a **regex**, one must use ‘@’ as the controller host value.
If the hosting junction’s name is a **cstring** and not a **regex**, then the controller host value can also be a **cstring**.
EXCEPTION: For node junction, if the hosting junction’s name is a **cstring** and not a **regex**, then its controller host value must have be exactly that node junction’s name.
NOTE: When in doubt about a controller host name, use ‘@’.

* **port** ::= an **ushort** for the ID of the listened port.

* **cores** ::= a **regex** specifying the ID of the cores to be used

* **log** ::= **string** storing the output log file path and name.

* **envar** ::=  **cslist** of **string** of environment variable and their values.

* **mca-params** ::= **cslist** of **string**, where each **string** contains a single tag-value pairs, with the “=” as separator.  Use multiple statements for multiple specification.  All multiple statements must be grouped together in the XML file.

* **aggregator** ::= (yes|no)  .  If yes, than that particular junction or scheduler will designated as an accumulator.

**scheduler** ::= **shost** **port** [**mca-params**] [**aggregator**] **queues***

* **shost** ::= The same as **host** but specific to the **scheduler**
* **queues** ::= a **regex** . Each entry is in the form of queueName:priority:list-of-nodes, where the list-of-nodes is a comma-separated list of node ranges in regular expression. The "default" queue is automatically created and will contain all nodes not explicitly contained in any other defined queue. The default queue has a zero priority.  Use multiple **queue** statement in order to provide a list of <queue>.  Keep the items of this list grouped together in the XML file.

# XML example

At the time of this writing, the CFGI file can only be written using a simplified XML embedding, i.e. the file has to be written using XML.

Typically the file is written in the directory $PATH2ORCM/orcm/etc/orcm-site.xml.  ORCM will look for this file by name.

The ORCM XML parser only parse a simplified XML format.  The simplification are as follows:
* XML attributes are not supported
* Quoted strings can only use double quotes “.

A prototype CFGI file written in XML is provided on the following page.  It presents a cluster with the following configuration:

* A 4-tier hierarchy: cluster, row, rack, junction
* 1 Scheduler with 2 queues
* 4 rows named row1, row2, …
* 128 racks per rows, locally called “=rack001”, …, “=rack128”
* 80 nodes per racks, locally called “=node01”, …, “=node80”
* Each row, rack and node have a controller

The character = is here used as separator between levels of the hierarchy.  It is possibly not the ideal separator, if one is needed at all.  Any valid <string> character can be used; and it can be omitted altogether.  With the example below, a node will, for example, get the name “row2=rack111=node79”.  Not the best name, but it shows what can be done.

The example has in-lined comments which provides further details.

# Example XML file
`<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>`<br />
`<configuration>`<br />
::`<!—- Version is fixed to 3.0 -->`<br />
::`<version>3.0</version>`<br />
     `<creation>1430:2015Feb28 by A. BC</creation>`<br />
     `<!—- We need a single RECORD -->`<br />
    `<role>RECORD</role>`<br />
    `<junction>`<br />
        `<!—- We need a single root for the hierarchy -->`<br />
        `<type>cluster</type>`<br />
        `<name>CLUSTER</name>`<br />
        `<junction>`<br />
            `<type>row</type>`<br />
            `<!—- The rows are called (row1|row2|row3|row4) -->`<br />
            `<name>"row[1:1-4]"</name>`<br />
            `<controller>`<br />
                `<!—- This controller takes its name from its row’s name -->`<br />
                `<!—- It is assumed that the row’s name is IP resolvable -->`<br />
                `<host>@</host>`<br />
                `<port>55815</port>`<br />
                `<mca-params>sensor_base_sample_rate=5</mca-params>`<br />
                `<mca-params>sensor_heartbeat_rate=10</mca-params>`<br />
            `</controller>`<br />
            `<junction>`<br />
                `<type>rack</type>`<br />
                `<!—- The racks have a compounded name, a part comes from its row,-->`<br />
                `<!—- a part comes from the regex below (=rack001,…,=rack128)  -->`<br />
                `<!—- So a rack’s name will be, for example, row2=rack111  -->`<br />
                `<name>@=rack[3:1-128]</name>`<br />
                `<controller>`<br />
                    `<host>@</host>`<br />
                    `<port>55815</port>`<br />
                    `<mca-params>sensor_base_sample_rate=5</mca-params>`<br />
                    `<mca-params>sensor_heartbeat_rate=10</mca-params>`<br />
                `</controller>`<br />
                `<junction>`<br />
                    `<type>node</type>`<br />
                    `<!—- Again because of the use of @, a node will have compounded name  -->`<br />
                    `<!—- One node will have, for example, the name row2=rack111=node79 -->`<br />
                    `<name>"@=node[2:1-80]"</name>`<br />
                    `<controller>`<br />
                        `<host>@</host>`<br />
                        `<port>55815</port>`<br />
                        `<mca-params>sensor_base_sample_rate=5</mca-params>`<br />
                        `<mca-params>sensor_heartbeat_rate=10</mca-params>`<br />
                    `</controller>`<br />
                `</junction>`<br />
            `</junction>`<br />
        `</junction>`<br />
    `</junction>`<br />
    `<scheduler>`<br />
        `<!—shost identifies the node that houses the ORCM scheduler. Only one allowed at this time -->`<br />
        `<shost>localhost</shost>`<br />
        `<!-- Port used by orcm scheduler -->`<br />
        `<port>55820</port>`<br />
        `<!-- Each queue entry is in the form of queueName:priority:list-of-nodes, where the list-of-nodes `<br />
                `is a comma-separated list of node ranges in a regex. The "default" queue is automatically created `<br />
                `and will contain all nodes not explicitly contained in any other defined queue.`<br />
               `The default queue has a zero priority.  -->`<br />
        `<queues>"quick:100:a[4:1-200]"</queues>`<br />
        `<queues>"slow:20:b[4:500-512]"</queues>`<br />
    `</scheduler>`<br />
`</configuration>`<br />

