# `dataContainer` reference
The `dataContainer` class is used across the simplified sensor and analytics interface as a convenience container to store information as `<key, value>` pairs. Also, the units could be specified as well. We will refer as data item to the combination of `key`, `value` and `unit`. This class is somewhat "derived" from the STL `map` class.

The following public methods are available for the `dataContainer` class:

### `template<typename T> void put(const std::string& key, const T &value, const std::string &units)`

Insert a value into the container. `key` is a label string for identifying the data item and it must be unique in the container. `value` is the metric to be stored, see the list of supported data types at the end. `units` is a string for specifying units of the metric.

### `template<typename T> T getValue(const std::string& key)`
Returns the `value` for a given `key`. The value is casted into the template specified type. A `unableToFindKey` exception is thrown if there is no item with the specified `key`.

### `template<typename T> T getValue(const dataContainer::iterator& it)`
Returns the `value` for the iterator `it` (see the Iterators section below). The value is casted into the template specified type.

### `void erase(const std::string& key)`
Removes the data item specified by `key`. A `unableToFindKey` exception is thrown if there is no item with the specified `key`.

### `void erase(const dataContainer::iterator& it)`
Removes the data item pointed by the iterator `it` (see the Iterators section below).

### `std::string& getUnits(const std::string& key)`
Returns the units for the data item specified by `key`. A `unableToFindKey` exception is thrown if there is no item with the specified `key`.

### `std::string& getUnits(const iterator& it)`
Returns the units of the data item referred by `it` (see the Iterators section below).

### `std::string& getDataTypeName(const std::string& key)`
Returns the descriptor string for the data item specified by `key`. A `unableToFindKey` exception is thrown if there is no item with the specified `key`.

### `std::string& getDataTypeName(const iterator& it)`
Returns the descriptor string for the data item referred by `it` (see the Iterators section below).

### `size_t getDataSize(const std::string& key)`
Returns the data size for the data item specified by `key`. A `unableToFindKey` exception is thrown if there is no item with the specified `key`.

### `template<typename T> inline bool matchType(const std::string& key)`
Returns `true` if the data item specified by `key` stored type match the one of the template. A `unableToFindKey` exception is thrown if there is no item with the specified `key`.

### `template<typename T> bool matchType(const iterator& it)`
Returns `true` if the stored type of the data item referred by `it` matches the one of the template.

### `size_t count()`
Returns the number of data items in the `dataContainer`.

### `dataContainer::iterator begin()`
Returns an iterator referring to the first item of the `dataContainer` (see the Iterators section below).

### `dataContainer::iterator end()`
Returns an iterator referring to the _past-the-end_ item of the `dataContainer` (see the Iterators section below).

### `std::string& getKey(const iterator& it)`
Returns the `key` of the data item referred by `it` (see the Iterators section below).

### `bool containsKey(const std::string& key)`
Returns true if there is an item in the container specified by `key`. This function should be used to check for unexisting keys.

### `void* getRawDataPtr(const iterator& it)`
Returns a pointer to the raw data of the data item referred by `it` (see the Iterators section below).

## Supported data types
* `bool`
* Signed integer types: `int8_t`, `int16_t`, `int32_t`, `int64_t`
* Unsigned integer types: `uint8_t`, `uint16_t`, `uint32_t`, `uint64_t`
* Floating-point types: `float`, `double`
* `struct timeval`
* `string`

### `dataContainer::iterator`
The `dataContainer` iterator is a wrapper for the underlying STL map container:
```
typedef std::map<std::string, dataHolder>::iterator iterator;
```

An iterator is an object referring to a data item that is part of the `dataContainer` class. For referring to the next element, the incremental operator can be used, e.g. `++it`. Assuming `cnt` as a `dataContainer` pointer, is possible to loop through all of the data items as follows:
```
for (dataContainer::iterator it = cnt->begin(); it != cnt->end(); ++it)
```