####2.2.4.1 CentOS 6.5

#####2.2.4.1.1 CentOS 6 PostgreSQL Installation

Edit `/etc/yum.repos.d/CentOS-Base.repo` and add `exclude=postgresql*` for [base] and [updates] section.

```
yum localinstall http://yum.postgresql.org/9.3/redhat/rhel-6-x86_64/pgdg-centos93-9.3-1.noarch.rpm
yum install postgresql93-server 
```

To remove:
```
rm -rf /var/lib/pgsql
yum remove postgresql93-server 
```

#####2.2.4.1.2 PostgreSQL Configuration

```
service postgresql-9.3 initdb
```

Edit `/var/lib/pgsql/9.3/data/pg_hba.conf` and add: `local all orcmuser trust` (must be before other entries).

```
service postgresql-9.3 start
```

Failed to start?  Check `/var/lib/pgsql/9.3/pgstartup.log` for details.  Make sure an existing _postgres_ process is not already running: `/usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/postmaster -p 5432 ...`

#####2.2.4.1.3 PostgreSQL DB and User Setup

```
su - postgres
dropdb orcmdb
dropuser orcmuser 
createuser orcmuser 
createdb --owner orcmuser orcmdb
```

NOTE: the "drop" commands were included to remove a preexisting installation (they're not necessary if this is the first installation).

#####2.2.4.1.4 ORCM-Specific Database Creation Script

The scripts can be found in the ORCM repo, in the following directory: `orcm/build/contrib/database`.

```
psql --username=orcmuser --dbname=orcmdb -f orcmdb_psql.sql
```

#####2.2.4.1.5 Client Access Setup

Edit `/var/lib/pgsql/9.3/data/pg_hba.conf` and add `host all all 127.0.0.1/32 trust` (for IPv4) and `host all all ::1/128 trust` for IPv6.

```
service postgresql-9.3 restart
```

To use the PostgreSQL native client library:
```
yum install postgresql93
psql --dbname=orcmdb --username=orcmuser #Try select * from data_samples_view.
```

To use ODBC:
```
yum install postgresql93-odbc
```

Edit `psql_odbc_driver.ini` and specify the path where the PostgreSQL ODBC driver was installed.  Use the following command to find it: `rpm -ql postgresql93-odbc | grep psqlodbc.so`.

```
odbcinst -i -d -f psql_odbc_driver.ini
```

Edit `orcmdb_psql.ini` and specify the host where the PostgreSQL service is running and specify the name of the driver configuration (the key name from the ".ini" file from the previous step).

```
odbcinst -i -s -f orcmdb_psql.ini -h
odbcinst -s -q # List Data Source Names (DSNs)
isql -v orcmdb_psql orcmuser # Test ODBC access to the DB.  Try select * from data_samples_view.
```

Look in `/var/lib/pgsql/9.3/data/pg_log/postgresql-Tue.log` for access logs to the DB.

NOTE: for simplicity, these steps are configuring the authentication method for the database as "trust".  This is a good approach to start with to make it easier to get everything up and running.  However, once the basic setup is completed, it's highly recommended to configure a more secure authentication method.

#####2.2.4.1.6 Run ORCM

To use the ORCM _postgres_ component:
```
orcmd --omca sensor heartbeat,coretemp --omca db_base_verbose 100 --omca db_postgres_uri localhost --omca db_postgres_database orcmdb --omca db_postgres_user orcmuser:orc
```

To use the ORCM _odbc_ component:
```
orcmd --omca sensor heartbeat,coretemp --omca db_base_verbose 100 --omca db_odbc_dsn orcmdb_psql --omca db_odbc_user orcmuser:orc --omca db_odbc_table data_sample 
```

NOTE: because the "trust" authentication method was configured in the previous step, the password here is irrelevant.  However, after the basic setup is up and running, it is highly recommended to at least configure the "password" authentication method, in which case the correct password should be used here.

#####2.2.4.1.7 Query the DB

First, initiate a _psql_ session: `psql -d orcmdb -U orcmuser [-W]`.

Querying RAS monitoring data:
```
select * from data_samples_view;
```

Deleting the data from RAS monitoring:
```
delete from data_sample_raw;
```

Getting the number of sample data rows from RAS monitoring:
```
select count(*) from data_sample_raw;
```

Querying node feature data (inventory):
```
select * from node_features_view;
```

#####2.2.4.1.8 Enabling Network Access to the DB

Edit `/var/lib/pgsql/9.teuser3/data/postgresql.conf` and set: `listen_addresses = '*'`.

#####2.2.4.1.9 Adding a password

Edit `/var/lib/pgsql/9.3/data/pg_hba.conf` and set the authentication method to `password` instead of `trust`:

From within a _psql_ session (logged in as orcmuser):
```
alter user orcmuser with password '<choose a password>';
```