#### 2.1.5.1 Sigar, IMPI, SNMP and SSL

##### 2.1.5.1.1 SSL dependencies
```
# CentOS
shell$ yum install libtool-ltdl openssl openssl-devel
```
##### 2.1.5.1.1 Dependencies for SNMP sensor
```
# CentOS
shell$ yum install net-snmp
shell$ yum install net-snmp-devel
```
##### 2.1.5.1.2 Dependencies for sigar sensor
```
# SLES12
shell$ zypper install sigar sigar-devel

# CentOS
shell$ yum install sigar sigar-devel
```
If sigar and sigar-devel are not available from your package manager:
```
# SLES12
shell$ zypper install cmake

# CentOS
shell$ yum install cmake

shell% wget http://vault.centos.org/6.5/os/Source/SPackages/sigar-1.6.5-0.4.git58097d9.el6.src.rpm

shell% rpm -ihv ./sigar-1.6.5-0.4.git58097d9.el6.src.rpm
shell% rpmbuild -bb --clean --rmsource --rmspec ~/rpmbuild/SPECS/sigar.spec

# SLES12
shell% zypper --no-gpg-checks --non-interactive install ~/rpmbuild/RPMS/x86_64/sigar-1.6.5-0.4.git58097d9.x86_64.rpm ~/rpmbuild/RPMS/x86_64/sigar-devel-1.6.5-0.4.git58097d9.x86_64.rpm

# CentOS
shell% yum install ~/rpmbuild/RPMS/x86_64/sigar-1.6.5-0.4.git58097d9.<distro>.x86_64.rpm
shell% yum install ~/rpmbuild/RPMS/x86_64/sigar-devel-1.6.5-0.4.git58097d9.<distro>.x86_64.rpm

```
#### 2.1.5.1.3 Dependencies for IPMI sensor

IPMI Util – IPMI util library is a dependency for including IPMI plugin in the sensor framework.  IPMI Util libraries is for accessing Base board management controller (BMC) on compute nodes and for collecting OOB RAS monitoring data from the compute nodes. Aggregator node will need this installed for OOB access to the compute node BMC’s.

You can grab the 2.9.6 version here:
```
wget -nd --reject=*.html* --no-parent -r \
     http://ipmiutil.sourceforge.net/FILES/archive/ipmiutil-2.9.6-1.src.rpm
rpm -hiv ipmiutil-2.9.6-1.src.rpm
```
The above step will install the ipmiutil source code and a spec file in a "rpmbuild" directory and store it in the home directory.
Add the configure option "--enable-libsensors" to the configure command in the ipmiutil.spec file and then build the rpms and install them as discribed here:
```
rpmbuild -bb SPECS/ipmiutil.spec

# SLES12
shell% zypper --no-gpg-checks --non-interactive install ~/rpmbuild/RPMS/x86_64/ipmiutil-2.9.6-1.el6.<distro>.x86_64.rpm ~/rpmbuild/RPMS/x86_64/ipmiutil-devel-2.9.6-1.el6.<distro>.x86_64.rpm

# CentOS
shell% yum install ~/rpmbuild/RPMS/x86_64/ipmiutil-2.9.6-1.el6.<distro>.x86_64.rpm
shell% yum install ~/rpmbuild/RPMS/x86_64/ipmiutil-devel-2.9.6-1.el6.<distro>.x86_64.rpm
```

#### 2.1.5.3 Database Dependencies

The database is an optional component for logging RAS data.  At the moment, Sensys provides support for the PostgreSQL DBMS.  There are two options (components) for enabling database support:

* PostgreSQL native client library
* ODBC

In addition to database components, there is an option to publish the data to a *ZeroMQ subscriber* where the data format is a simple JSON object with a list of name-value pairs and optional units.  This component is the db plugin named **"zeromq"**.  This plugin required the ZeroMQ libraries and development packages be installed on the build system.  Note only the libraies are required to run Sensys with this plugin.  Use The build configuration option **with_zeromq=yes** to include this plugin in the Sensys build or use **--with_zeromq=yes** configure command option.  See section *2.2.6-Database-ZeroMQ-Publishing* for more details.

Use...
```bash
shell$ yum install epel-release
shell$ yum install zeromq zeromq-devel
```
...*or for SUSE 12*...
```bash
shell$ zypper install zeromq-devel
```
...depending on your OS.

To build Sensys with database support connecting via the PostgreSQL native client library, the following dependencies are required:
* PostgreSQL development package
* PostgreSQL client package (installed as a dependency of the development package)
* PostgreSQL shared libraries (installed as a dependency of the client package)

NOTE: PostgreSQL usually installs to its own directory, so when configuring Sensys make sure to specify the directory prefix for the include files and libraries via the "with-postgres" parameter (whether through the command line or the configuration file).

To build Sensys with database support connecting via the ODBC interface, the following dependencies are required:

* unixODBC development package
* unixODBC (installed as a dependency of the development package)
* PostgreSQL ODBC driver

Installation instructions for these components depends on the Linux distribution.  For detailed instructions for the PostgreSQL packages, please refer to: [PostgreSQL installation wiki](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Detailed_installation_guides).

To download and install use:
yum localinstall http://yum.postgresql.org/9.3/redhat/rhel-6-x86_64/pgdg-centos93-9.3-1.noarch.rpm
For more information on unixODBC, please refer to: [unixODBC](http://www.unixodbc.org/).

For more details on the database installation itself, please refer to: [[2.2-Database-Installation]].
