New Features
============

* Quality improvement
  Concerted effort to reduce outstanding bug count

* Performance and stress validation
  Validation using SNMP and IPMI devices within the cluster
  Behavior of the SW in failure scenarios (error injection)
  Error / notification latency

* Scalability validation
  Execution on a 16 nodes cluster (Maximum physical nodes)
  Execution on a 2k Dockers containers cluster

* Security validation
  Privilege escalation validation
  Fuzzing validation (buffer overflow and segmentation faults)
  Remote attacks, denial of service and SQL injection

* UX validation
  Usability, output alignment


Open Issues
===========

* Query functionality in octl command line tool is timing out in event data 
  and sensor-data queries

* Unreliable connectivity issues in docker simulated 2K node cluser setup 
  during longevity test execution

* Octl query command segfault in interactive mode after a failed query

* Unable to connect to IPMI for OOB sensor data collection with multiple 
  aggregator on the same physical node

* Aggregator daemon is shutdown if any of its compute daemons tries to 
  execute SNMP plugin

* Octl query history/sensor command output alignment issue

* Aggregator daemon reports error: "Unable to update node features" in 
  the following functional test "sensor_freq_test"

* Syslog saves repeated messages on the the data base

* Analytics workflows doesn't sanitize input data and silently ignores errors

* syslog sensor data collection doesn't work properly with SElinux enabled


Legal Notice
============

* Gemeter software includes a 3rd party PUGIXML source which uses MIT license.
  Copyright information is included in the release notes Legal Notice section 
  in the document below.


Security Advisory
=================

* The file orcm_default_config.xml/snmp.xml used for connecting to network devices using SNMP protocol uses a plain text password field for SNMP version 3.
  Since the file contains a plain text password, the read and write permissions on this file should be restricted to authorised admin users.

* The file orcm_default_config.xml/ipmi.xml used for OOB connection to BMC using IPMB protocol uses a plain text password field for IPMI credentials.
 Since the file contains a plain text password, the read and write permissions on this file should be restricted to authorised admin users.


Following Sections Are Updated For This Release Documentation
==============================================================

* Section 1 ORCM
  Removed section 1.6 Admin RAS Policy.

* Section 2.1.05
  Updated instructions for intalling sigar library using zypper in SLES 12.

* Section 2.3.01
  Removed IPMI port number from the configuration file.

* Section 3 User Guide and 3.6 ORCM Authentication Using Munge
  Added Authentication munge plugin documentation.
