  New Features
==============

* Simplified interface for **Sensor** and **Analytics** plugins.
  Providing a developer-friendly way to add new sensors and
  analytics.

* Unification of configuration files used by Sensys.
  CFGI, SNMP, IPMI, workflows and logical group configuration
  in a single file.

  * As part of the effort to unify configuration files, CFGI
    parser was refactored to use **Parser** framework.

* Added new **ZeroMQPublisher** notification plugin.
  This plugin can be used in place of a database plugin and will
  publish data to a ZeroMQ subscriber.

* DB schema changed.
  'value_str' columns of all tables have been updated from
  'varchar' to 'text'.


  Open Issues
=============

* octl is not able to continue retrieving information from a list of nodes if one of them is not found.
* Error message on aggregator from new ud analytics.
* Segmentation fault (OCTL) and tags changed when logical group it's added and a SNMP tag it's present.
* Attempting to start a compute node daemon without a scheduler kills both the compute daemon and its aggregator.
* Multiple aggregators in same physical host are logging same hostname.
* errcounts sensor - Unable to update node features.
* PUGI XML Parser deleting information when modifications are done.
* SNMP [Longevity] - Buffer overflow error.
* orcmd fails to start if ipmiutil library is not installed.
* snmp - missing encrypting fields in configuration file (snmpv3).

* [Sensor] Syslog plug-in TDD tests hang in Docker environment.
* Auto has wrong order of precedence for setting parameters.
* orcminfo test failures due to the CleanUp Effort.
* Pattern found in stderr and invalid ELF header are causing test failures on smoke tests.
* Pattern not found in orcminfo_smoke.noroot_mca_sensor is causing test failure.
* Pattern not found and workflow file can't be open issues in smoke tests.
* CI, Protex and IP-Leak-Detection-Tool are not being executed on gerrit.
* odbc UTs are failing


  Legal Notice
==============

* Sensys software includes a 3rd party PUGIXML source which uses MIT license.
  Copyright information is included in the release notes Legal Notice section
  in the document below.


  Security Advisory
===================

* The file **orcm-site.xml** uses a plain text password fields for SNMP and
  IPMI credentials. Since the file contains a plain text password, the read
  and write permissions on this file should be restricted to authorised admin
  users.


  Documentation Updates
=======================

* **Section 2 Build and Installation Guide.**
  Updated github urls.
  Provided instructions to build and use ZeroMQ plugin.

* **Section 3.1 ORCM Tools.**
  Added documentation to use osub, orun, orcmsd and ocli software tools.
* **Section 3.4 ORCM CFGI User Guide.**
  Updated syntax and examples for the unified configuration file.

* **Section 4 Developer Guide.**
  Documented the simplified interfaces for Sensor and Analytics plugins.
