  New Features
==============

* Support for plugin multiselect on Database framework to allow logging data simultaneously on postgres and zeromq pub-sub interface.
* Multithreading support on database framework. Now every type of data to be log into the database will use a separated thread.
* New implementation for IPMI sensor. This new sensor solves problems with concurrent access to IPMI devices.
* Rename on storage MCA parameters. Removing analytics_prefix to store_raw_data and store_event_data.

  Open Issues
=============

* octl is not able to continue retrieving information from a list of nodes if one of them is not found.
* Attempting to start a compute node daemon without a scheduler kills both the compute daemon and its aggregator.
* orcmd fails to start if ipmiutil library is not installed.
* Multiple aggregators in same physical host are logging same hostname.


  Legal Notice
==============

* Sensys software includes a 3rd party PUGIXML source which uses MIT license.
  Copyright information is included in the release notes Legal Notice section
  in the document below.


  Security Advisory
===================

* The file **orcm-site.xml** uses a plain text password fields for SNMP and
  IPMI credentials. Since the file contains a plain text password, the read
  and write permissions on this file should be restricted to authorised admin
  users.


  Documentation Updates
=======================

* **Section 3.8 RAS Monitoring**
  Documentation for IPMI Thread safe sensor.

* **Section 3.13 Sensys Database Multiple Threads**
  Added documentation for the use of multiple threads on DB framework.

* **Section 3.14 Sensys database multiselect**
  Documentation for multiselect on DB framework plugins.
