## New Features

* Added **PostgreSQL 9.2** support on CentOS 7.
* Updated used version from **PUGIXML 1.7** to **PUGIXML 1.8**.
* Added rpm Sensys packages for CentOS 7 and SLES 12.

## Open Issues

* CFGI-3.x version enforce a `cluster->row->rack->node` hierarchy, if a row
  or rack is omitted a fictitious one is not added. This error can be avoided
  by adding the missing element in the CFGI file by hand.
* `ipmi` and `nodepower` are disabled by default in favor of using `ipmi_ts`
  instead. `ipmi` and `nodepower` are deprecated and are going to be removed
  in future releases.
* `octl` is not able to continue retrieving information from a list of nodes
  if one of them is not found.
* Attempting to start a compute node daemon without a scheduler kills both
  the compute daemon and its aggregator.
* Multiple aggregators in same physical host are logging same hostname.

## Legal Notice

* Sensys software includes a 3rd party PUGIXML source which uses MIT license.
  Copyright information is included in the release notes Legal Notice section
  in the document below.

## Security Advisory

* The file `orcm-site.xml` uses a plain text password fields for SNMP and
  IPMI credentials. Since the file contains a plain text password, the read
  and write permissions on this file should be restricted to authorized admin
  users.

## Documentation Updates

* ##### New Getting Started
  Added new Getting Started section as part of Sensys Documentation.

* ##### Updated documentation style
  Updated github urls.
  Updated documentation style: headers, list, inline references and code blocks.
