RAS monitoring is enabled by default in the ORCM, if it was configured during build time. Alternatively any of the sensor plugins can be selected or deselected by passing specific mca parameters.  For example, for enabling only the sensor ipmi, coretemp, we need to pass:
```
orcmd --omca sensor heartbeat,ipmi,coretemp
```
note that some sensors, such as ipmi, require orcmd to be run as root for access to the underlying metric collection.
 
Heartbeat is a special plugin under the sensor framework which collects a bucket of data holding all the sampled data metrics by each sensor and sends it to the aggregator, so we need to enable it every time we need collect sensor related data.

If no mca parameters are passed w.r.t. 'sensor' then the framework by default enables all the plugins that were are available and able to run. Some plugins contain special mca parameters that define certain special conditions in their functionality, the are listed under each corresponding plugin where ever applicable.

Apart from RAS monitoring, the sensor framework is also used to collect the inventory details of the compute nodes. The 'dmidata' plugin is a unique plugin which collects only the inventory information but doesn't collect any periodic metrics. 

MCA Parameters for sensor framework:

* sensor_base_verbose: Set the verbosity level while launching the orcmd daemon. The amount of debug messages getting logged depends on the verbosity levels.
* sensor_base_sample_rate: Set the sampling rate at which each of the sensor components sample their respective metrics.
* sensor_base_log_samples: Enable/Disable logging the collected metrics into the database.
* sensor_base_collect_metrics: Enable collecton of the metrics.
* sensor_base_collect_inventory: Enable collecton of the inventory details.
* sensor_base_set_dynamic_inventory: N/A

###2.3.1 coretemp

This component is used to read the DTS temperature sensor values from each Processor present in each compute node.  The coretemp.ko kernel module needs to be loaded for this plugin to function. This can be done by running:
```
sudo modprobe coretemp
```

If this module is not present in the linux distro, then the lm-sensors package needs to be installed. See the instructions [here](http://www.lm-sensors.org/).

MCA parameters:

* sensor_coretemp_test: Enable logging a random test sample by the plugin for testing sensor to database connectivity
* sensor_coretemp_enable_packagetemp: Enable/Disable collecting the package or die temperature. Enabled by default.
* sensor_coretemp_use_progress_thread: Enable coretemp to run on it's own separate thread.
* sensor_coretemp_sample_rate: If coretemp is running in a separate thread, then this parameter is used to configure the sample rate at which the data will be sampled.
###2.3.2 file

This component is used by applications to detect stalled programs. It tests to see if the specified file has been modified since the last time we looked, if it hasn't been touched for the specified number of times, then we declare the application to have stalled.

MCA parameters:

* sensor_file_file: The name of the file that needs to be monitored
* sensor_file_check_size: Boolean value to indicate whether the file size needs to be monitored or not.
* sensor_file_check_access: Boolean value to indicate whether the last access time has to be monitored or not.
* sensor_file_check_mod: Boolean value to indicate whether the last modified time has to be monitored or not.
* sensor_file_limit: Integer value indicating the maximum count before which the staleness of the file can be ignored, it is by default set to 3.
* sensor_file_test: Enable logging a random test sample by the plugin for testing sensor to database connectivity
* sensor_file_use_progress_thread: Enable file to run on it's own separate thread.
* sensor_file_sample_rate: If file is running in a separate thread, then this parameter is used to configure the sample rate at which the data will be sampled.

###2.3.3 freq

This component is used to read the CPU frequency scaling values from each Processor present in each compute node.

MCA parameters:

* sensor_freq_test: Enable logging a random test sample by the plugin for testing sensor to database connectivity
* sensor_freq_pstate: Enable collection of the intel_pstate related information
* sensor_freq_use_progress_thread: Enable freq to run on it's own separate thread.
* sensor_freq_sample_rate: If freq is running in a separate thread, then this parameter is used to configure the sample rate at which the data will be sampled.

###2.3.4 ft_tester

This component is used to test the fault tolerance/resilience of the system. This component will roll a random number generator each sampling time. If the lucky number hits, then the plugin will terminate either the indicated app proc or the daemon itself will kill itself, based on the specified parameter setting.

MCA parameters:

* sensor_ft_tester_fail_prob: Set an upper threshold probability value for killing a child process.
* sensor_ft_tester_multi_allowed: Boolean value to indicate whether multiple child processes should be killed or not.
* sensor_ft_tester_daemon_fail_prob: Set an upper threshold probability value for killing itself.

###2.3.5 heartbeat

This component is used to gather all the relevant data sampled by the other sensor components that have been enables and properly send that data to the appropriate log function.

###2.3.6 ipmi

This component is used to read IPMIUtil data from the BMC(s) present in each compute node.

MCA parameters:

* sensor_ipmi_bmc_username: Used to set the username of the remote BMC nodes for retrieving the metrics via the IPMI interface
* sensor_ipmi_bmc_password: Used to set the password of the remote BMC nodes for retrieving the metrics via the IPMI interface, for the above configured username
* sensor_ipmi_sensor_list: Used to set the list of BMC monitored sensor names whose value is to be retrieved. Use the sensor names stored in the BMC as defined in section 43.1.  For example: "PS1 Power In,Processor 2 Fan,Fan 1"
* sensor_ipmi_sensor_group: Used to set the group of BMC monitored sensor names whose value is to be retrieved, any sensor whose name contains this term will be retrieved. For example: "Fan" (This will filter out all the sensors with the term 'fan' in it)
* sensor_ipmi_test: Enable logging a random test sample by the plugin for testing sensor to database connectivity
* sensor_ipmi_use_progress_thread: Enable ipmi to run on it's own separate thread.
* sensor_ipmi_sample_rate: If ipmi is running in a separate thread, then this parameter is used to configure the sample rate at which the data will be sampled.

###2.3.8 sigar

This component reads memory, swap memory, cpu load, disk, and network data for each compute node.

MCA parameters:

* sensor_sigar_test: Enable logging a random test sample by the plugin for testing sensor to database connectivity
* sensor_sigar_mem: Enable collecting and logging memory usage details.
* sensor_sigar_swap: Enable collecting and logging swap memory usage details.
* sensor_sigar_cpu: Enable collecting and logging cpu usage details.
* sensor_sigar_load: Enable collecting and logging system load details.
* sensor_sigar_disk: Enable collecting and logging disk access details.
* sensor_sigar_network: Enable collecting and logging network usage details.
* sensor_sigar_sys: Enable collecting and logging system usage details.
* sensor_sigar_proc: Enable collecting and logging system wide process details as well as orcmd and child process details.
* sensor_sigar_use_progress_thread: Enable sigar to run on it's own separate thread.
* sensor_sigar_sample_rate: If sigar is running in a separate thread, then this parameter is used to configure the sample rate at which the data will be sampled.

###2.3.9 resusage

This is an alternative to the sigar component, which collects OS metrics by directly accessing the file system, without using any third party libraries.

MCA parameters:

* sensor_resusage_sample_rate: N/A
* sensor_resusage_node_memory_limit: N/A
* sensor_resusage_proc_memory_limit: N/A
* sensor_resusage_log_node_stats: Whether the sampled node status information is to be sent to the log function for further processing.
* sensor_resusage_log_process_stats: Whether the sampled process status information is to be sent to the log function for further processing.
* sensor_resusage_test: Enable logging a random test sample by the plugin for testing sensor to database connectivity
* sensor_resusage_use_progress_thread: Enable resusage to run on it's own separate thread.
* sensor_resusage_sample_rate: If resusage is running in a separate thread, then this parameter is used to configure the sample rate at which the data will be sampled.

###2.3.10 nodepower

This component is used to read node power using raw commands supported by PSUs. Currently the input power to PSUs is reported.

MCA parameters:

* sensor_cnodepower_use_progress_thread: Enable nodepower to run on it's own separate thread.
* sensor_nodepower_sample_rate: If nodepower is running in a separate thread, then this parameter is used to configure the sample rate at which the data will be sampled.

###2.3.11 componentpower

This component is used to read CPU and DDR power using RAPL MSRs.

MCA parameters:

* sensor_componentpower_use_progress_thread: Enable componentpower to run on it's own separate thread.
* sensor_componentpower_sample_rate: If componentpower is running in a separate thread, then this parameter is used to configure the sample rate at which the data will be sampled.

###2.3.12 dmidata

This component is used to collect the inventory information from the node

MCA parameters:

* sensor_dmidata_test: Enable logging a random test sample by the plugin for testing sensor to database connectivity
* sensor_dmidata_ntw_dev: Enable collecting the network interface details
* sensor_dmidata_blk_dev: Enable collecting the block/hard drive details
* sensor_dmidata_mem_dev: Enable collecting memory module details.
* sensor_dmidata_pci_dev: Enable collecting PCI devices details (Needed for collecting ntw.blk,mem device details)
* sensor_dmidata_freq_steps

###2.3.13 mcedata

This component is used to collect the Machine Check Errors (MCE) that have been encountered by the OS. The open source 'mcelog' daemon has to run in the background. It also needs to run in the 'raw' mode, for mcedata plugin to extract the data accurately.

The following types of errors are currently read and decoded:
* Cache Errors
* Memory Controller Errors
* Bus & Interconnect Errors

MCA parameters:

* sensor_mcedata_logfile: Pass the path to the logfile into which mcelog stores the recorded errors. It must match the logfile configured in mcelog.conf
* sensor_mcedata_use_progress_thread: Enable mcedata to run on it's own separate thread.
* sensor_mcedata_sample_rate: If mcedata is running in a separate thread, then this parameter is used to configure the sample rate at which the Machine Check Event occurences will be sampled.