The ORCM scheduler daemon is a root level resource manager daemon which runs on the SMS (system management server) node  (or Head Node).

The ORCM scheduler is responsible for accepting submission requests, prioritizing the requests, and allocating resources once available to the next appropriate request.  The scheduler framework will allow for different scheduler plugins to be loaded for required functionality.

The scheduler framework must take requests from session submission utilities and prioritize resource allocation appropriately.  The scheduler framework is primarily used to prioritize access to resources.  This framework will need to interface with the resource management framework to get updated resource states and session completion information.

The SCD operation can be split into 5 stages:

* Session initialization
* Session schedule
* Session allocated
* Session active
* Session terminated

The initialization is called for all new requests to assign session id and queue the request based on priority and requested resources.

The schedule is called whenever there is a resource state change or a request queued.  These state changes open the possibility for the next session to be launched.

The session allocated routine is invoked when the scheduler finds a session that can be run on the available resources.  This allocated routine is responsible for informing the resource manager framework that the resources are allocated, and to make sure that the current session can get all required resources.

The session active routine is called once all resources are allocated to the given session.  The active routine is responsible for launching the initial job steps across the allocation.

The resource manager framework will notify the scheduler framework upon job completion/termination with the terminated routine.

The ‘orcmsched’ tool command line options are described below:
```
orcmsched  [OPTION]...
```

Following is an example to start the orcmsched daemon using a configurable mca parameter:
```
shell$ orcmsched –mca db mysql
```

The above will configure orcmsched to use the mysql database backend.

orcmsched options:

* `-h, --help`: Display help for this command
* `-v, --verbose`: Be verbose
* `-V, --version`: Print version number. If no other arguments are given, this will also cause orun to exit.
* `-d, -debug, --debug`: Enable debugging of OpenRTE
* `-debug-daemons, --debug-daemons`: Enable debugging of any OpenRTE daemons used by this application
* `-gmca, --gmca <arg0> <arg1>`: Pass global MCA parameters that are applicable to all contexts (`arg0` is the parameter name; `arg1` is the parameter value)
* `-mca, --mca <arg0> <arg1>`: Pass context-specific MCA parameters; they are considered global if only one context is specified (`arg0` is the parameter name; `arg1` is the parameter value)
