Admin-focused tool for interacting with ORCM.  This tool has the ability to run as an interactive shell or as a single one-shot command.  Currently the tool provides information about configured resources, sessions, and queues.  The tool is also for managing sessions and power budget at the admin level. 

###3.5.1 Interactive CLI
The interactive mode of the CLI is invoked by running the command without any subcommands.  Optional arguments such as MCA parameters can be specified as well.

```
% octl
*** WELCOME TO OCTL ***
 Possible commands:
   resource             Resource Information
   queue                Queue Information
   session              Session Management
   diag                 Diagnostics
   power                Power Budget
octl> 
```

Once in the interactive shell, the `<tab>` key can be used to either auto-complete unambiguous partial commands or list possible completions for ambiguous partial commands.  The `<?>` key will display more information about all of the commands at the current hierarchy.

For example, pressing `<tab>` after entering `resource`, will show:
```
octl> resource 
	status add remove drain
octl> resource
```

As another example, pressing `<?>` after entering `queue`, will show:
```
octl> queue    
Possible commands:
   status               Queue Status
   policy               Queue Policies
   define               Queue Definintion
   add                  Add Resource to Queue
   remove               Remove Resource from Queue
   acl                  Queue Access Control
   priority             Queue Priority Modification

octl> queue
```

Notice how in both cases, control is returned to the user to complete the command as desired.

In the following sections, examples for each command will be given using normal one-shot execution mode.  However, they can also be executed in interactive mode.

###3.5.2 Resource
The resource command set is used to display information about the resources (nodes) configured in the system.  Currently resource modification is not supported administratively, but once support for that is added, the functionality will be invoked with this command set.  The current implementation displays the node connection state (either up or down) and the job state (allocated or unallocated).  The node specification is an ORCM node regex.

Example:
```
% octl resource status
TOTAL NODES : 10
NODES                : STATE  SCHED_STATE
-----------------------------------------
node001              : ↑      UNALLOCATED
node[3:2-10]         : ?            UNDEF
```

###3.5.3 Queue
The queue command set displays information about the currently configured queues as well as the sessions within each queue.  The current scheduler defines 3 queues: running, hold, and default.  All sessions get placed initially in the default queue.  As the scheduler launches the sessions they will be placed on the running queue.  And session that tries to allocation invalid resource definitions will be placed on the hold queue with a string describing the error.

The session information displays:

&lt;session-id&gt; &lt;userid|grouid&gt; &lt;number of nodes requested&gt; &lt;EXclusve or SHared&gt; &lt;Batch or Interactive&gt;

Example:
```
% octl queue status
********
QUEUES
********
running (1 sessions)
----------
1	502|20	1	EX	B	
hold (0 sessions)
----------
default (2 sessions)
----------
2	502|20	5	SH	B	
3	502|20	2	EX	B	
```

###3.5.4 Session
The session command set is used to modify submitted sessions.  Currently the only modification supported is canceling the session.  If the session is in the default queue waiting to run, canceling the session will remove it from the queue.  If the session is running, then canceling the session will terminate the running jobs and end the session.  The session cancel command takes a session-id as a required argument.

Example:
```
% octl session cancel 1
Success
% octl queue status
********
QUEUES
********
running (0 sessions)
----------
hold (0 sessions)
----------
default (2 sessions)
----------
2	502|20	5	SH	B	
3	502|20	2	EX	B
```

###3.5.5 Power
The power budget command set allows setting and retrieving a cluster-wide power budget.  This will only be enforced if the appropriate plugin or subsystems are in place to honor this request.  The power _set_ command takes a required argument of a numeric power budget (in Watts) for the system.  The power _get_ command displays the currently set budget.

Example 1: setting the power budget to 10000 Watts
```
% octl power set 10000
Success
```

Example 2: getting the current power budget
```
% octl power get
Current cluster power budget: 10000
```