Analytics is a framework to run user defined analysis on sensort output data. Analytics provide different plug-ins which can do the analysis on sensor data based on users request. A user can request the analysis of sensor data through workflows. Below is the sample of a workflow file:

	VPID:1
	component:filter:args:node=<node_name>,sensor=<sensor_name>
	component:average:args:db=yes

The below diagram provides an overview of Analytics Framework in a cluster environment and different analytics plug-ins are descibed later in this page.
Analytics framework runs only on the aggregator node. The actions to be performed by the Analytics framework are submitted by OCTL tool. The OCTL tool can be run by administrator from any management nodes from network. The details of implementation of OCTL tool is provided in Step 1 of this document. The details of implementation of Analytic framework are provided in Step 2 of this document.

![Analytics Framework Overview] (1-ORCM/Overview.png)

Step 1: OCTL

![OCTL Overview] (1-ORCM/OCTL_Overview.png)

![OCTL Flow Chart] (1-ORCM/OCTL_Flow.png)

Note: Please refer to the OCTL tool wiki page for the usage.

Step 2: Analytics Framework

![Working of Analytics Framework] (1-ORCM/Analytics_details.png)

![Analytics Framework Flow Chart] (1-ORCM/Analytics_flow.png)

There are currently two plug-ins (Filter & Average) are supported in Analytics Framework and in addition to these plug-ins there is a DB Storage Attribute is given which will allow the user to log the data into database. Short description of all the plug-ins are given below.

Filter:

The role of the FILTER plug-in is to compare the user requested information with the actual sensor data sent by the aggregator. By doing this we make sure that we analyze only user requested data instead of analyzing any unnecessary data. After validating the data this plug-in will pass on this information to average or any other plug-in.

Average:

The running average is the average of all the data up to the current data value. Average plug-in utilizes the data received from the previous workflow step. The formula is as follows:
	A(N+1) = (N * A(N) + new_sample) / (N + 1)

DB Storage Attribute:

The role of the DB storage attribute is to store the analyzed data in the database. This attribute is optional and will be activated only if user has requested the data to be stored in the database.
Example

	component:average:args:db=yes

